# LangParser
A while ago, I realized that the ternary operator, ? :, could theoretically replace all if statements in a C program. I thought it would be interesting to see what a program like this actually would look like, so here, I'm writing a transpiler for a programming language that will eventually output C with only these ternary operators.

Currently, I use nodes_test.c as the testing ground, since nodes.c is what I'm working on. That means, within the Makefile, I only have defined nodes_test. To run it, just run `make test_nodes`.


How to add a new node to `nodes.c/nodes.h`:
1. Define a new node type within the `NodeType` enum. For example, you might add `Node_SetVariable` into the enum.
2. Define the struct for that node type. For example, for `Node_SetVariable`, you could define a struct called `SetVariable`, with 2 members, `String variable_name`, and `Child variable_value_expr`. The first is for the name of the variable being set, and the second is for the expression that the variable will be set to.
3. Add this struct to the `Node` struct's union.
4. Define a function for parsing the node, with the convention `static bool PSS_Parse<Node type being parsed>(ParseStateSave* p, Child* node_idx_out) { ... }`. Note that the name `p` is important to keep, as several macros hardcode that name within them.
5. Within some structures, child nodes are kept as a union between an array index and a pointer. They are kept as an array index while parsing, and are converted to a pointer when parsing is finished. This conversion step, where indices are converted to pointers, currently needs to be hard coded and implemented for every node type. To do so, add to the function `static Error ParseState_ConvertIndicesToPtrs(ParseState* p) { ... }`. Within this function, there is a large if statement with several `else if` chained together. Add the new node type within this chain, making sure to respect the order, as compared with the `NodeType` enum's order. For example, `Node_Program` should always be the last node in `NodeType`, and thus, should always be the last node type checked within the if chain.
6. To enable the parse tree to be printed back out, the node should also be converted to a string within `static Error Child_Print(DynamicString *out, Child child_node)`. In this function, extend the switch block with the new node type, making sure to preserve the same node type ordering found in the `enum NodeType` definition.

## Algorithm for converting the language to a C program:
We will imagine the C program as 1 statement made up of nested ternary operators. These will function like a state machine, with the output of the ternary operator expression being the next state. To select the current state, the ternary operator compared the current state with the state it encodes (for example `state == 3 ? (instructions for state 3, integer representing next state, or a ternary operator for conditional state selection) : (state == 4 ? (instructions for state 4, next state selector) : (other stuff...))`)

This means we first need to convert the AST of my language into a state machine representation. Since my language currently only has assignments and if statements, we really only need to worry about 2 things. First, assignments are trivial. If a state is made up of instructions, where each instruction codes for some assignment operation, then an assignment operation just adds an instruction to the current state. The current state, at the beginning of the conversion, starts out as a state which immediately goes to the exit state, where the exit state is simply some predefined integer. Then, a list of set instructions corresponds to adding instructions to this state. If statements are a little bit more tricky, but not super difficult. We first create 2 states, one representing the inside of the if statement, and the second representing the statements after the if statement. The state transition for the if statement state is set to be an unconditional transition to the state representing the statements past the if block. To insert these new states, take the current state (the one that existed before creating the 2 new states) and replace it's unconditional exit state transition with a conditional transition, with the condition being the boolean expression in the if statement, the truth output being the state integer for the inside of the if statement, and the false output being the state integer for the statements past the if statement.